Custom builder documentation (addresses #4478 ) (#4609)
influxdata/docs-v2: content/telegraf/v1.24/configure_plugins/custom_builder.md

---

> title: Reduce Telegraf binary size with customized agent
> description: Use the custom builder tool to reduce Telegraf binary disk space. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Custom-compile Telegraf
description: Use the Telegraf custom builder tool to compile Telegraf with only the plugins you need and reduce the Telegraf binary size. 
```

> description: Use the custom builder tool to reduce Telegraf binary disk space. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
description: Use Telegraf custom builder to reduce the Telegraf binary size by compiling only the plugins you need.
```

> menu:
>   telegraf_1_24:
> 
>     name: Reduce binary size
>     Parent: Configure plugins
>     weight: 20

Reviewer: This shouldn't be in configuring plugins. In the process of setting Telegraf up, this should come before installing the binary. I think we need to turn the current Install doc into a section and add this page under Install.

```suggestion
menu:
  telegraf_1_24:
    name: Custom-compile Telegraf
    Parent: Install
weight: 20
```

Reviewer 2: so maybe?:

To install Telegraf, do the following:
1. [Download Telegraf](https://docs.influxdata.com/telegraf/v1.24/install/#download)
2. [Review requirements](https://docs.influxdata.com/telegraf/v1.24/install/#requirements)
3. (Optional?) [Custom-compile Telegraf](insert link to new section) 
     **Tip:** Complete this step to reduce the size of your Telegraf binary.
4. [Install](https://docs.influxdata.com/telegraf/v1.24/install/#installation)

Reviewer 3: Yeah this makes sense to put it somewhere near install. People will most likely try downloading Telegraf out-of-the-box first then reference something like this for building something customized.

---

> Reduce Telegraf's overall memory and disk footprint with the custom builder. This tool allows you to select which plugins to use in the Telegraf binary based on your configuration file. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the Telegraf custom builder tool to compile Telegraf with only the plugins you need and reduce the Telegraf binary size.
```

## Requirements

> - Ensure you've installed the current version of [Go](https://go.dev/). 
> - Create your Telegraf configuration file with the plugins you want to use. For details, see [Configuration options](/telegraf/v1.24/configuration/).

Reviewer: This seems pretty vague. If anything, "current" should be "latest stable." Is there a minimum supported version of go?

```suggestion
- Latest stable version of [Go](https://go.dev/). 
- Telegraf configuration file with the plugins you want to use. For details, see [Configuration options](/telegraf/v1.24/configuration/).
```

Reviewer 3: in my blog i have " At the time of publishing, this tool requires Go version 1.18.0+"

> - Create your Telegraf configuration file with the plugins you want to use. For details, see [Configuration options](/telegraf/v1.24/configuration/).

Reviewer 3: should this be `[Configuration options](/telegraf/latest/configuration/)` so it doesn't backtrack to 1.24?

Author: Not here because this is already/only in 1.24, and we want it to go to the same current version even when we have 1.25+.

## Build and run the custom builder

1. Clone the Telegraf repository:

>     ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ```sh
```

    git clone https://github.com/influxdata/telegraf.git
    ```
2. Change directories into the top-level of the Telegraf repository:

>     ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ```sh
```

    cd telegraf
    ```
3. Build the Telegraf custom builder tool by entering the folllowing command:

>     ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ```sh
```

    make build_tools

>     ```

Reviewer: ~~~suggestion
3. Build the Telegraf custom builder tool by entering the folllowing command:
    ```
    make build_tools
    ```

    This process stores the `custom_builder` utility at `./tools/custom_builder/custom_builder`
~~~

> 4. Point the custom builder at your Telegraf configuration file or files that include the plugins you want to build, like in the following examples, to generate your customized binary:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Run the `custom_builder` utility with at least one `--config` or `--config-directory` flag to specify Telegraf configuration files to build from. `--config` accepts local file paths and URLs. `--config-dir` accepts local directory paths. You can include multiple `--config` and `--config-dir` flags. The custom builder builds a `telegraf` binary with only the plugins included in the specified configuration files or directories:
```

Reviewer 2: To specify Telegraf configuration files to build from, run `custom_builder` with one of the following:
- `--config` to accept local file paths and URLs
- `--config-dir` to accept local directory paths
**Note:** Use multiple `--config` and `--config-dir` to use multiple configs?

The custom builder builds a `telegraf` binary with the specified plugins in the specified configuration files or directories.

Reviewer 2: should we say using the specified configuration files....or is the term "in" accurate here?

    - **Single Telegraf configuration**: 

>         ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        ```sh
```

        ./tools/custom_builder/custom_builder --config /etc/telegraf.conf
        ```
    - **Single Telegraf confiuaration and Telegraf configuration directory**: 

>         ```
>         /tools/custom_builder/custom_builder --config
>         /etc/telegraf.conf --config-dir /etc/telegraf/telegraf.d
>         ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        ```sh
        ./tools/custom_builder/custom_builder \
          --config /etc/telegraf.conf \
          --config-dir /etc/telegraf/telegraf.d
        ```
```

    - **Remote Telegraf configuration**:

>         ```
>         ./tools/custom_builder/custom_builder --config http://url-to-remote-telegraf/telegraf.conf
>         ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        ```sh
        ./tools/custom_builder/custom_builder --config http://url-to-remote-telegraf/telegraf.conf
        ```
```

> 5. View your customized Telegraf binary within the top level of your Telegraf repository.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. View your customized Telegraf binary in the top level of your Telegraf repository.
```
